= RailsCsvImporter

Define configuration in a hash and then import Ruby on Rails model data from CSV with one method call.

Both Rails 2 and 3 are supported.

== Usage

1. If used in Rails 2, add 'gem fastercsv' to Gemfile.
2. Add 'gem rails_csv_importer' to Gemfile.
3. Add acts_as_rails_csv_importer to your model.
4. Call YourModel.get_csv_import_template to generate the CSV template.
5. Call YourModel.import_from_csv in your controller to import data from a CSV file uploaded.

=== In a Rails Model

class Foo < ActiveRecord::Base
  acts_as_rails_csv_importer
end

=== Generate CSV Template

Call Foo.get_csv_import_template(import_config). See below for details on the parameter.

=== Import From CSV

Call Foo.import_from_csv(import_config, content, options = {})

* import_config

  A hash that defines what data are imported and how.

  [:mapping] A hash that defines the columns in the csv. Each hash key is the model attribute name for the column.
             Each value is a hash defining how the column is processed:

             [:name] The heading that identify the column in the csv.
                     If omitted, the heading will be the humanized form of the key.
                     (_Optional_)

             There are three different ways to specify how the column is processed:

             [:value_method] A lambda to convert the column value from csv into the attribute value in the model.
                             Class Acts::RailsCsvImporter::ValueMethods provides some pre-defined value methods.
                             (_Optional_)

             [:record_method] A lambda to find the associated record if this attribue is a foreign key.
                              (_Optional_)

             [None of the above options present] The column value will be used without any conversion.

  [:find_existing] A lambda to find the existing record to update for a row.
                   A new record is created if the lambda could not find an existing record and return nil.
                   The row is passed as a hash to the lambda.
                   If this parameter is omitted, a new record is created for each row.
                   (_Optional_)

* content

  A string that contains the csv content to import from.

* options

  A hash of options for the import. (_Optional_)

  [:partial_save] If true, any valid rows in the csv will be saved even if there are some invalid rows.
                  Otherwise, data will be imported only when all rows are valid.

Exception +Acts::RailsCsvImporter::RailsCsvImportError+ is thrown when there are errors duing the importing.

== Example

class Material < ActiveRecord::Base
  acts_as_rails_csv_importer
end

class MaterialsController < ApplicationController
  IMPORT_CONFIG = {
      :mapping => {
        'name' => {},
        'fragile' => {
          :name => "Fragile?",
          :value_method => Acts::RailsCsvImporter::ValueMethods.boolean_value_method
        },
        'category_id' =>  {:record_method => lambda { |v, row, mapping| Category.find_by_name(v) } },
      },
      :find_existing => lambda { |row| Material.find_by_name(row['name']) }
  }

  def download_template
    headers["Content-Type"] = 'text/csv'
    headers["Content-Disposition"] = 'attachment; filename="template.csv"'
    render :text => Material.get_import_template(IMPORT_CONFIG)
  end

  def import
    num_imported = Material.import_from_csv(IMPORT_CONFIG, params[:file_upload])
    flash[:notice] = num_imported.to_s + " records imported successfully."
  rescue  Acts::RailsCsvImporter::RailsCsvImportError => ex
    @err_message = ex.errors.map { |err, row| err.is_a?(String) ? err : err.full_messages }.join(';')
    render :template => :error
  end
end

For more examples, refer to +test/rails_csv_importer_test.rb+

== Download and installation

The latest version of RailsCsvImporter can be installed with RubyGems:

  % [sudo] gem install rails_csv_importer

Source code can be downloaded on GitHub

* https://github.com/benli/rails_csv_importer/tree/master


== License

RailsCsvImporter is released under the MIT license:

* http://www.opensource.org/licenses/MIT

